# HONDA-GAUGE-CLUSTER
Adaptive LED lighting system in car gauges, reacting to changes in engine rpm and signals from valve control technology in real time.

Car modifications have been used for many years, including changes to engine parameters, suspension, vehicle appearance, and also its lighting. In the 1990s, one of the popular modifications was the so-called "underglow", an addition to the car consisting of installing lighting under the car. In the new millennium, vehicle interior lighting began to appear, the so-called "ambient-light", a desirable option in premium cars. The next available modifications were car lamps, changing their appearance using rings with LED lighting inside, which are known on the market as "angel eyes". It should be added that these are not the only available options for changing the appearance of car lamps. There are ready-made kits consisting of, among others, a controller, LEDs, high-power resistors, cables and mounting plates, which can be mounted to lamps already on the car after minor modifications to their housing. These modifications change the lighting behavior of the lamps, their shapes (for example hearts), colors (RGB) and the appearance of the housing itself. Another modification that has been and is being performed in motor vehicles is changing the color of the clock backlight by replacing W5W bulbs with LED bulbs of a different color.
All the previously mentioned modifications are mainly aimed at changing the appearance to suit the user's preferences, but there are lights that fulfill not only visual but also informative functions, such as the tachometer found in Formula 1 vehicles.

The inspiration for this project is the combination of lighting functionality and appearance. Combining the possibility of changing the appearance of car clock lighting and providing information about its rotation and valve control technologies in an intuitive and aesthetic way is the task that was undertaken in this project. This system will use modern technologies and solutions to achieve the set goal in the simplest and most reliable way. The test object is a Honda Prelude V from 1999.

To achieve the goal, new and already known skills will be used. To create the system in question, an Arduino NANO microcontroller, WS2812B addressable LED lighting, DC-DC converters, an optocoupler for safe signal transmission to the microcontroller, connectors and other components will be used, without which the previously mentioned components will not work. The Arduino IDE will be used to create the code. The purpose of the code will be to read the engine revolutions, change the brightness of the lighting, and manage animations and colors based on the revolutions. Dedicated libraries will be used to implement some of the functionality. In order for the system in question to fit into the clock housing, appropriate modifications will be made, such as cutting out unused housing elements and dismantling the unnecessary factory backlight.
